# PECAN
## Overview and Origin
Pecan develops AI platforms which conduct predictive analytics to help business intelligence, operations and revenue teams predict mission-critical outcomes. The company was founded in 2018 by Zohar Bronfman and Noam Brezis. The founders met while completing computational cognitive neuroscience PhD at Tel Aviv University. The founders were enamored with data science but observed that in modern businesses this superpower was typically within a specialized task force rather than in the hands of anyone with questions about the future. The original plan for the company was to build a platform taking the power of data science and serve it to corporate audience in a SQL-oriented platform. This democratization of data science remains the north star of the company. The company is not yet publicly traded but has received several rounds of funding from venture capital firms like S Capital VC, mindset ventures, GCV Capital, G/ (Google Ventures), Insight Partners, Vintage Investment Partners. Capital investment for each funding round is as following:
- Series B - $35M (May, 2021)
- Series C - $66M (Feb, 2022)
- Total funding - $115M (After Series C)

## Business Activities
Pecan created Predictive GenAI platform with seamless data integration and personalized predictive models to assist companies predict future events and make informed decisions. Pecan’s low-code predictive analytics and data science platform is used by several organizations in fintech, insurance, retail, consumer packaged goods, mobile apps, and consumer services. The company’s Predictive Chat solution develops customized models for different functions inside an organization based on user description of business requirements. Predictive Notebook solution uses users chat details and data to create an easy-to-use, customized notebook-style modeling experience in SQL. The model can be further trained to gain insights utilizing automated data prep even if the data is messy.
Pecan suit of offerings is used by companies of different size and industry. 
- Canada Automobile Association (CAA) utilized Pecan platform to optimize roadside assistance forecasting and staffing in all its facilities, improving service for all 2.5M members. The association spent 30% less time on generating forecasts, experimented with 100s of model improvements and updated existing models quickly and easily. Pecan’s solution also allowed staff scheduling across 100% of club facilities significantly easier, without additional data science resources.
- Mobile game publisher KSG Mobile used Pecan platform to more accurately predict User Acquisition (UA) program’s success rate and forecast Life Time Value (LTV) of acquired customers for the latest marketing campaign. Pecan’s predicted LTV for 2023 campaigns was within 5% of the actual value, providing the UA team more confidence to utilize the model for future campaigns.
- Cybersecurity software provider Armor VPN utilized Pecan’s predicated lifetime value (pLTV) models to make marketing decisions with more confidence, boosting campaign ROI. The company can anticipate, within the first few days of the campaign, the expected future and adjust as needed. Using Pecan’s predictions, the user acquisition team identified a 25% gap on average between the actual user lifetime value and what they expected users’ value to be. 
- Cryptocurrency exchange Coinmama used Pecan tools to foresee customer behavior to reduce chargeback and identify fraudulent transactions. The use of Pecan’s platform saved an estimated 140 hours per month of analysts’ time in review process, generated accurate predictions for thousands of transactions per week and reduced the number of transactions requiring manual review by two-thirds.
- Demand forecast generated by Pecan solution for a major global retailer with omnichannel distribution of over 10K SKUs helped reduce overstock amounts up to 50% and lifted sales 10-25%. The model also improved prediction precision rate by 80-95%.

With no data preparation, engineering, or preprocessing, Pecan connects directly to various data sources, unifies and standardizes the data, and allows for quick and automated deployment of predictive models. The Pecan platform can be connected to any existing data stack of a company. The solution can integrate with raw data from CSV files, Attribution, Data Warehouses, CRM or Databases. Using machine learning and neural networks, Pecan automates the entire predictive process to decipher patterns in the data and prioritize relevant insights. 

Pecan had slight first mover advantage during its early days but there are many companies providing predictive analytics platforms now. The current value proposition of Pecan’s solution is the low-code model that enables fast adoption at low cost for companies purchasing and implementing the platform.


## Landscape
There are several companies, and ongoing university researches, utilizing Artificial Intelligence to design predictive analytics platform and develop prediction models. Major trend in the predictive analytics field include:
- Augmented Analytics - utilize Machine Learning to reduce workload on data scientists to provide more bandwidth on finding insights. 
- Data Fabric - major emphasis is also on developing practical data fabric, data management design pattern leveraging all types of metadata to observe, analyze and recommend data management solution.
- Cloud Storage - data migration to cloud for increased availability and scalability is an ongoing trend.
- Edge Computing - data processed and analyzed closer to where it is generated. This provides faster and more extensive data processing, allowing for deeper insights, shorter response times, and better customer experiences. This is on the opposite end of cloud storage. The vast sea of data generated on a daily basis can be too much for cloud storage to handle. This technology also carries certain risks, such as limited bandwidth and network disruptions. 
- Data Visualization – data analysis results are presented utilizing enhanced data visualization elements like charts, graphs and maps to help organizations see patterns, trends and outliers in data.    
- Emergent AI – the trend to transform relationship between human and organizational systems. This trend transcends Predictive Analytics and a major focus of any AI/ML platform/solution.

Other companies in the field include new entrants like:
- Qualtrics
- Atrium
- Nice
- Alteryx
- RapidMiner
- H2O

and established players like:
- IBM SPSS Modeler
- Tableau
- Adobe Analytics
- SAS
- Microsoft

## Results
Pecan’s low-code solution platform provides value to customer by optimizing resource allocation, cutting cost, and increasing returns on investment. Some of the most common predictions that Pecan can make relate to price optimization, customer collection, supply chain optimization, procurement optimization, churn prediction, customer activity volume and customer worth over time. With accurate predictions, companies know exactly what actions to take to increase revenues, improve retention rates, and or realize whatever the business objective at-hand is. 
Pecan’s competitors are also competing on similar matrix with the promise to improve company insights into trends, behavior and opportunities hiding inside the vast array of raw data stored by the company. There is no clear winner in this evolving field but Pecan is certainly one of the leaders. As adoption of AI/ML solutions for predictive analytics increases, Pecan will continue to grow. There is space for multiple players in this field.

## Recommendations
Pecan’s low-code predictive analytics and data science platform is a great choice for companies and organizations in varied industries and differing sizes. However, the one size fit all platform might be too vague of a starting point for some companies. The prospect of customization is appealing to many organizations but starting from ground zero on model development and customization might be formidable and slow going for some. My recommendation is that Pecan develop industry specific templates and/or end-result specific models for companies to reference and build off of while developing their customized model. A robust template based on input from industry peers and/or competitors will alleviate customer fear in implementing new system/solution. 

## Addendum (Sources)
- **Pecan.ai**
- **Gartner.com**

   *https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2023-05-09-gartner-identifies-the-top-ten-data-and-analytics-trends-for-20230#:~:text=Data%20fabric%20is%20a%20data%20management%20design,generates%20alerts%20and%20recommendations%20that%20can%20be*

   *https://www.gartner.com/en/articles/10-data-and-analytics-trends-to-keep-on-your-radar#:~:text=Emergent%20AI%20transforms%20the%20relationship%20between%20humans,of%20insights%20to%20actively%20engaged%20insight%20creators.*
- **Orientsoftware.com**

    *https://www.orientsoftware.com/blog/data-analytics-trends/#:~:text=Edge%20computing%20is%20believed%20to%20be%20the,shorter%20response%20times%2C%20and%20better%20customer%20experiences.*
- **Medium.com**
  
    *https://medium.com/sap-io/how-pecan-gives-data-science-superpowers-to-any-business-60b24d853434#:~:text=Pecan's%20AI%2Dbased%20predictive%20analytics%20platform%20transforms%20raw,in%20a%20matter%20of%20days.%20Stephanie%20Horwitz.*
